# VCUBASKETBALL
MySQL PROJECT 
VCU basketball Statistics Database 

This is a database that stores data of all the player names, minutes played by each player, number of rebounds, assists and points scored. The purpose for this database is to create a localized collection for data for the VCU basketball team and anyone interested in VCU basketball. There are multiple use cases for this database. This collection of data can be stored or shared as an archive of VCU basketball statistics for this given year. However it can be created for any year or extended to include multiple years. This database will only consist of the 2019-20 season. People that keep up with the scores and stats of VCU basketball usually attend or watch most games, however it is difficult to attend or watch all of them. Some people may have work or numerous other reasons why they could not keep up with the game. Once a game has passed, some people may not want to watch an old game or waste time watching the highlights. Some may only want to go back and watch it if the team they wanted won. Hence it is essential to have a collection of relevant data for these people that do not want to spend time watching an old game, but would like to know the stats of the game and how each player played individually. They may also want to know how VCU did as a whole this year and a condensed version of the year would allow the end user to see that.
	
	Another issue this database could solve is finding information on specific players, as simply looking up a player’s name usually does not provide you with all the relevant data you may be looking for, including their minutes played, number of rebounds, assists, and points scored, for each game. This database could also be used to calculate averages for each player or even identify broken records for the season by the players or even the team as a whole.
	
	This database would not only store data of the VCU players, but also the stats of the opposing team for that specific game. Hence including a table of opposing teams within the Atlantic 10 league. The system would have entities such as player names, rebounds, the teams that they played against, the number of points, rebounds, assists each player has scored against each team. The system would also include the number of minutes they have played against each team. The necessary information we require for the system to work is data of all the games that VCU has played this season. This information can be found online and is publically available for all internet users. The system would condense this available data into confined tables organizing and providing functionality to the end user. The functionality of the system includes that when you search a team name, it provides information about all the players on the team and the dates that team played. Along with the statistics of the VCU team of course. This essentially gives the statistics for both teams when a team is searched, including the first half scores, second half scores. And final scores of each game. Each game is identified by its date, hence removing redundancy of a team being played more than once. Another function includes searching for a player that would provide you with the team they play for, their graduation class and games they played in. When a player and a date is searched, you are provided with their data of that specific game, including points, rebounds, minutes, and assists. When a coach name is searched, you are provided with the team they coach for and what games they coached in.  This database would store and organize statistics for the VCU basketball team in a single place, allowing the end user with functionality unmatched by having to individually search up a game.
